# Dockerfile 
1. It defines what goes on in the environment inside your container. 
2. Access to resources like networking interfaces and disk drives is virtualized inside this environment, which is isolated from the rest of your system, so you need to map ports to the outside world, and be specific about what files you want to “copy in” to that environment. However, after doing that, you can expect that the build of your app defined in this Dockerfile behaves exactly the same wherever it runs

## Steps to create a own Dockerfile
1. Create an empty directory. Change directories (cd) into the new directory, create a file called Dockerfile, copy-and-paste the following content into that file, and save it.
    -               # Use an official Python runtime as a parent image
                    FROM python:2.7-slim

                    # Set the working directory to /app
                    WORKDIR /app

                    # Copy the current directory contents into the container at /app
                    COPY . /app

                    # Install any needed packages specified in requirements.txt
                    RUN pip install --trusted-host pypi.python.org -r requirements.txt

                    # Make port 80 available to the world outside this container
                    EXPOSE 80

                    # Define environment variable
                    ENV NAME World

                    # Run app.py when the container launches
                    CMD ["python", "app.py"]

    - to come out of vi editor `esc then :wq enter`

2. The above Dockerfile refers to a couple of files we haven’t created yet, namely app.py and requirements.txt. Let’s create those.
    - Create two more files, requirements.txt and app.py, and put them in the same folder with the Dockerfile. 
    - This completes our app, which as you can see is quite simple. 
    - When the above Dockerfile is built into an image, app.py and requirements.txt is present because of that Dockerfile’s COPY command, and the output from app.py is accessible over HTTP thanks to the EXPOSE command.

3. creating requirements.txt
    -               Flask
                    Redis
4. creating app.py
    -               from flask import Flask
                    from redis import Redis, RedisError
                    import os
                    import socket

                    # Connect to Redis
                    redis = Redis(host="redis", db=0, socket_connect_timeout=2, socket_timeout=2)

                    app = Flask(__name__)

                    @app.route("/")
                    def hello():
                        try:
                            visits = redis.incr("counter")
                        except RedisError:
                            visits = "<i>cannot connect to Redis, counter disabled</i>"

                        html = "<h3>Hello {name}!</h3>" \
                            "<b>Hostname:</b> {hostname}<br/>" \
                            "<b>Visits:</b> {visits}"
                        return html.format(name=os.getenv("NAME", "world"), hostname=socket.gethostname(), visits=visits)

                    if __name__ == "__main__":
                        app.run(host='0.0.0.0', port=80)

5. Build the app `docker build --tag=friendlyhello`
6. Run the app `docker run -p 4000:80 friendlyhello`
7. Note:-
    - You should see a message that Python is serving your app at http://0.0.0.0:80. But that message is coming from inside the container, which doesn’t know you mapped port 80 of that container to 4000, making the correct URL http://localhost:4000
    -  If you are using Docker Toolbox on Windows 7, use the Docker Machine IP instead of localhost. For example, http://192.168.99.100:4000/. To find the IP address, use the command `docker-machine ip`.   
8. You can also use the curl command in a shell to view the same content.
`curl http://localhost:4000`
                     